---
title: 10 Years
layout: post
---

10 years ago, give or take a few weeks, I became a Mozillian. I had been running Mozilla software for a few years, but hadn't given much thought to it or how it came to be. Hindsight is a trick thing, but back then it wasn't obvious that I'd end up in software. Until it started to pay it was just one more hobby among dozens that I was trying on in my youth. Computers were interesting, but everything was interesting back then.

It did pay though, eventually, and while work was scarce in the rural town I grew up in it was far better than the manual labor, odd jobs, and farm work that made up most of my income. I took every scrap of graphic design, web development, and technical work I could get. I learned a lot about both the technical and social aspects of software. I had to borrow time on shared computers, so I did most of this at night and I didn't sleep much.

And then, after a year or so, I was finally able to purchase my own machine -- a blue and grey HP pizza box laptop. Bottom of the line. Slow, heavy, and mine. Windows XP came on it, but GRUB found its way on there too and before long I was cycling through various linux distros and trying to get all device drivers to work.

Firefox had hit 1.0 a few months prior and in a fit of youthful hubris I grabbed a copy of trunk, despite never having worked in a compiled language or knowing about version control. It took me two weeks or more of reading mozillaZine, Bugzilla, and various blogs before I was finally able to compile Minefield. I wouldn't submit code to any Mozilla project for another five years, but I consider that first compiler success to be the day I became a Mozillian.

I lurked around the community after that. I submitted error reports, touched up the wiki here and there, and cycled through a dozen or more aliases before settling on just using my name. I evangelized Mozilla, and web standards, and open source. I watched the project grow. I also ran a recording studio, worked as a groundskeeper, and pursued a degree in Biology -- it didn't occurred to me that I might end up in software, or working at Mozilla. Not for years, until I saw John Lilly's WordCamp 2009 talk, and even then it would take me a long while to find the right place.

It's surreal to think back over those years and see how Mozilla has changed. How I have changed. How it has changed me. On the eve of my fourth year as an employee I realize that I don't talk about it enough -- there's so much I've learned here. I owe many talks, blog posts, and tweets to the people who have helped me along the way and asked nothing but that I pay it forward. I aspire to honor those debts, and it starts here -- with a teenager on a farm in New York taking his first frustrated steps towards an unexpected future.
